If you're shopping for a new mouse, you've come to the right place. As computer mice come into PC Labs for testing, there are several factors that we weigh and consider in each device. What sort of use is it intended for? What are the features offered? Most importantly, how does it perform in the real world?

First, we look at the intended use of the mouse. Is it meant for day-to-day use with a desktop PC, or for on-the-go use with a laptop or tablet? Is it a basic two-button mouse for browsing the Web, or a tricked-out gaming mouse, built for competition? Different categories have different needs, and each mouse is built to reflect the specifics of that category. Desktop mice are made for everyday use, and have the standard right and left buttons, a scroll wheel, and perhaps forward and back buttons for navigating in your Web browser. Travel mice, designed for use on the road, are usually much smaller, made to fit easily into the pocket of a laptop bag or backpack, and connect quickly without a tangle of wires. Gaming mice are an entirely different beast, eschewing simplicity in favor of customization, and offering buttons and controls that the average Facebook browser would never need.

There's also the question of connectivity. Wired connections, which have a USB cable to plug directly into the PC, are simple and straightforward, but they do tend to tangle and clutter up your desk. Gamers prefer wired mice because they offer low latency and suffer from fewer lag issues, but for many folks, a wireless mouse will do the job just as well, without the added mess of yet another cable. Wireless mice do have one drawback, however, and that is the need for batteries. With no USB cord to draw power from, it's batteries all the way, and even the most long lasting battery will eventually need to be replaced.

Finally, while the regular two-button mouse may be familiar to most, there's a new technology making gains in the mouse world—touch. With the advent of the touch-centric Windows 8, mice and trackpads with touch and gesture support have become an essential tool for anyone that wants to make use of Windows' touch-friendly features without buying a new laptop or touch-enabled monitor. If you have yet to upgrade your OS, touch may not seem that important, but gesture controls like swiping from the edge, scrolling horizontally, and pinch to zoom are all important when working with Windows 8, making touch-enabled mice indispensable.

Below are our top-rated computer mice. If you're a gamer, be sure to check out our picks for gaming mice. If you're looking for a keyboard as well, check out the 10 best we've tested.

With its highly accurate tracking, dedicated sniper button, and overall killer design, the Corsair Vengeance M65 is a fine addition to any first-person-shooter enthusiast's arsenal

The Logitech G602 Wireless Gaming Mouse offers all of the great gaming performance you want from a high-performance product, and few of the pitfalls

The Logitech T650 Wireless Rechargeable Touchpad puts all of the touchable features of Windows 8 into the hands of regular desktop users. 
The Penclic Mouse B3 is one of the best ergonomic mice we've reviewed, with a comfortable pen grip and intuitive button layout